well marketing friends we got to have a
serious talk because the way we've done
marketing for the last 20 years is
ending I'm I'm
serious I I believe that this guy this
is this is me in
2010 who who told you that digital
marketing for two decades I did told you
that digital marketing was all about
being able to track every View and every
click so that when conversions happened
we could perfectly attribute them we
could say oh this piece of content this
advertisement this PR investment this
word of mouth effort is worthwhile
because it turned into this trackable
perfectly attributable series of events
in our analytics and this this doesn't
work this way
anymore that's because clicks are dying
and attribution is dying there's only
one way forward I'm going to try and
present it to you as fast as I can and
as as efficiently as I can so what what
is it tell me Rand like what killed all
these clicks I'm going to tell you every
one of these platforms has an incentive
to keep you there LinkedIn wants to keep
you on LinkedIn you might be watching
this video on LinkedIn in a native
format with no link to a blog post or
anywhere else because linkedin's
algorithm biases me to want to share
native content with you so does Facebook
so does Reddit so does YouTube so does
Instagram so does Tik Tok everyone one
of these what about attribution well
attribution was killed by a variety of
things Apple's cookie changes absolutely
had a big effect when they pulled back
on third party cookies inside Safari
that took took a huge hit anti-tracking
and privacy laws in in California in
Canada coming potentially in New York in
in Europe right in the EU absolutely
which which has rolled out globally
adoption of ad blockers we're talking
about a third to half of all internet
users using an ad blocker on one or more
of their devices
and and ad blockers don't just block ads
they block all of the tracking that we
do as well Multi-Device Journeys right
the adoption of mobile and and desktop
and laptop and iPad and the domination
of apps that happen because of that all
of that activity those hours that people
spend inside their apps on their phone
that cannot be perfectly attributed back
to the same visits that they make on the
web except when it is through the same
ad tracking system right uh Google or
Facebook and finally zero click
consumption I don't click on things you
don't click on things we as a collective
internet stopped clicking and part of
that was the platform's training us not
to click and part of that is our own
predeliction for consuming content in
Native formats on apps and websites so
we look I have the data to back this up
this isn't just conjecture I can prove
it to you we did a study uh in January
of this year with Doos looking at who
sends traffic on the web and it is
overwhelmingly search look Google and
Microsoft and Bing and and YouTube dock
Doo to a certain extent that's about 70%
of all traffic referrals every click
that's sent out but where people are
spending time is not 70% search that is
not where 70% of visits go in fact it's
only about 10% of all visits and yes
that includes open Ai and perplexity and
all those places too 10% we spend time
in Social and productivity tools like
our email in on news websites buying
things in e Commerce on video and audio
platforms if you try to prove
acquisition via referral data traffic
referral data you will become Google's
fool and here's why because everything
that happens
here leads to one of these right I
consume content in Social I see
something about your uh brand of risoto
right your rice brand I'm like oh okay
that looks cool I'm going to check it
out I don't click because it's zero
click world I search I go to Google and
search and who gets the credit Google
does so what's the solution to all this
I'm presenting this this big problem but
there is a solution there is a way
forward and that is to go where your
audience is consuming content to find
their sources of influence so if I want
the best rice for risotto right and I
search Google for it well millions of
people cook risotto some of them search
Google to find the best rice but most
don't and I want to know we want to know
those millions of people what are all
the sources that influence them that
make them choose to buy one particular
brand or kind of rice or another and
that's what I'm looking I want the
websites risoto Searchers visit I want
to know the social networks and the
social accounts that they use and follow
I want to know the podcasts and the
YouTube channels and the subreddits that
they
visit I see something like this best
rice for risotto and I worry I worry
that a classic old school digital
marketer an SEO person looks at the
click-through rate and says this isn't a
keyword worth targeting right not worth
ranking for because Google's given me an
instant answer there there's no clicks
maybe you buy some clickstream data and
you see that you know almost no one
clicks on that result even though it's
up at the top but I see it and I say
that is going to bias behavior if I am
in the grocery store and I search for
best kind of rice for risotto I'm
probably going to buy arboro even though
arboro is not the best kind of rice for
rizoto you should be buying carnaroli if
you can age carnaroli I'm going to show
you the problem with this is that it
lacks attribution you can't prove to
your boss that by taking over that
ranking or by uh being in this you know
Ser you are getting any value unless it
sends a click and it sends no
clicks this is aquarelo a a brand of
aged carnaroli rice which which is
excellent for roro it's what I almost
always use and I'm obsessed with the
stuff and the thing that was successful
for them is they started an affiliate
program and they got into a bunch of
places like Bona petite which has an
affiliate link over to Amazon for aquaro
and they they realized this and then
they started pitching folks through PR
and they got a ton of great press and
they invited people to come taste their
rice in Italy and they worked with chefs
who served it all over the country and
now some in the United States as well
and and London and the UK very
successful they found the sources of
their customers influence and they reach
them through that right that you can see
it ranking by the way if I were an SEO I
would try and I would try and bump up
that bon appetite piece so what I'm
suggesting to you is that digital
marketing in 2024 is a lot like digital
marketing well a lot like Marketing in
1964 it is getting the right message
that appeals to the right people in the
right places and at the right time to
the Right audience and I'm urging you to
invest in it to optimize for it
for measurement and not attribution
because attribution fundamentally
doesn't work anymore and you can make
these Investments and measure on lift
and see incredible results